Update modules and commands page - Closes #1510, #1511, #1512, #1290 (#1610)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/understand-blockchain/sdk/modules-commands.adoc

// Project URLs
:url_understand_block_generation: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-generation
:url_understand_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-execution
:url_understand_genesis_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#genesis-block-execution
// Footnotes
:fn_jsonschema: footnote:jsonSchema[See the {url_json_schema} for more information about the JSON schema.]

A module is a separate component that contains blockchain-related business logic related to one specific domain or topic of a blockchain application.

Modules can be added to a blockchain application by registering them.
For a successful registration, each module needs to follow the expected module structure, which is described on this page.

All modules of a blockchain application combined define the complete *on-chain logic* of the blockchain application.

Modules perform state changes on Blockchain by::
* Defining logic that is executed per block.
* Defining logic that is executed per transaction.

== Module anatomy & the BaseModule

All important parts of a module are shown in the diagram below.

.Anatomy of a module

> image::understand-blockchain/sdk/module.png[right thumb,"Module Anatomy",600, align="center"]

Author: Thanks for the suggestions!

I have updated the diagram design, please let me know your thoughts!

Each module is constructed as a class which extends from the **BaseModule** interface.

The `BaseModule` interface defines all optional and required properties and hooks of a module that must be implemented for the blockchain application to recognize it as a valid module.

> .The `BaseModule`

Author: yeah, i think it is an UI issue, when using monospace here. WIll remove monospace as a workaround for now

> .The `BaseModule`

Author: I opened a new issue for this: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/issues/1620

.Example: ID of the Hello module
[source,js]
----
import { cryptography, BaseModule } from 'lisk-sdk';

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
	public id = cryptography.utils.intToBuffer(1000, 4);

    // ...
}
----
////

== Module name

The module name is the unique identifier for the module.

The module name is automatically calculated from the class name of the module, if it extends from the <<module-anatomy-the-basemodule,BaseModule>>:
The `Module` suffix of the class name is removed, and the first character is converted to lowercase.

TIP: For example, the module class `HelloModule` will have the module name `hello`.

The module name can be accessed inside the module via `this.name`.

In case it is desired to choose a different name for the module, a custom module name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom module name.

.Example: Choosing a custom module name
[source,js]
----
import { BaseModule } from 'lisk-sdk';

class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
    // ...
    public get name() {
      return 'newName';
    }
    // ...
}
----

== Module constructor

> <<blockchain-events>> and <<stores>> of the module are registered in the constructor of a module, for later use in the module.

Author: This can be updated in the UI. Currently, all links look the same in regards to styling

> <<blockchain-events>> and <<stores>> of the module are registered in the constructor of a module, for later use in the module.

Author: I opened a corresponding discussion here: https://github.com/LiskHQ/discussions/discussions/51

                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getAllDelegates.name,
                    response: getAllDelegatesResponseSchema,
                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getDelegate.name,
                    request: getDelegateRequestSchema,
                    response: getDelegateResponseSchema,
                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getVoter.name,
                    request: getVoterRequestSchema,
                    response: getVoterResponseSchema,
                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getConstants.name,
                    response: configSchema,
                },
            ],
            commands: this.commands.map(command => ({
                id: command.id,
                name: command.name,
                params: command.schema,
            })),
            events: [],
            assets: [
                {
                    version: 0,
                    data: genesisStoreSchema,
                },
            ],
        };
    }

    // ...
}
----

//TODO: Replace the snippet below with a code example from Hello app

> .Example: Schema of the `getAllDelegatesResponse` endpoint of the DPoS module

Author: see my comment above

[source,typescript]
----
export const getDelegateRequestSchema = {
	$id: 'modules/dpos/endpoint/getDelegateRequest',
	type: 'object',
	required: ['address'],
	properties: {
		address: {
			type: 'string',
			format: 'hex',
		},
	},
};
----
====

== Endpoints

> An endpoint is the interface for a module to an external system through an RPC endpoint.
> The module RPC endpoints of a blockchain application can be requested by external services, like UIs, to get relevant data from the application.
> 
> The endpoints are defined individually for each module, depending on the module purpose.

Author: ```suggestion
An endpoint is an interface between a module and an external system.
Lisk endpoints support RPC communication.
The module-specific RPC endpoints can be invoked by external services, like UIs, to get relevant data from the application.

The endpoints are defined individually for each module, depending on the module's purpose.
```

IMPORTANT: Endpoints allow to conveniently *get data from the blockchain application*.
It is never possible to set data / mutate the state via module endpoints.

Every module endpoint always extends from the `BaseEndpoint` class.

.The `BaseEndpoint` class
[source,typescript]
----
export abstract class BaseEndpoint {
	[key: string]: unknown;
	protected moduleID: Buffer;
	public constructor(moduleID: Buffer) {
		this.moduleID = moduleID;
	}
}
----

=== Exposing endpoints to plugins and external services
The module endpoints are usually defined in a file called `endpoint.ts` inside of the folder of the respective module.

.Example: Module endpoint
[source,typescript]
----
import { HelloEndpoint } from './endpoint';
import { cryptography } from 'lisk-sdk';

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
	public id = cryptography.utils.intToBuffer(1000, 4);
	public name = 'hello';
	public endpoint = new HelloEndpoint(this.id);
}
----

//TODO: Update code snippet to use Hello app example
.Example: `HelloEndpoint` in `endpoint.ts`
[%collapsible]
====
[source,typescript]
----

> export class DPoSEndpoint extends BaseEndpoint {

Author: There is already an existing todo to update the snippet. Currently, the DPoS endpoint is displayed, so no error here

	public async getVoter(ctx: ModuleEndpointContext): Promise<VoterDataJSON> {
		const voterSubStore = ctx.getStore(this.moduleID, STORE_PREFIX_VOTER);
		const { address } = ctx.params;
		if (typeof address !== 'string') {
			throw new Error('Parameter address must be a string.');
		}
		const voterData = await voterSubStore.getWithSchema<VoterData>(
			Buffer.from(address, 'hex'),
			voterStoreSchema,
		);

		return codec.toJSON(voterStoreSchema, voterData);
	}
}
----
====

> == Stores

Author: it's WIP :)

Certain blockchain events are published by default, for example

=== The BaseEvent

=== Creating events

=== Registering events

=== Publishing events

== Commands

A command is a group of *state-transition logics triggered by a transaction*, identified by the module and command name of the transaction.

image::understand-blockchain/sdk/command.png["Command anatomy",600, align="center"]

Every module command always extends from the `BaseCommand` class.

.The BaseCommand class
[source,typescript]
----
export abstract class BaseCommand<T = unknown> {
	public schema?: Schema;

	public get name(): string {
		const name = this.constructor.name.replace('Command', '');
		return name.charAt(0).toLowerCase() + name.substr(1);
	}

	// eslint-disable-next-line no-useless-constructor
	public constructor(protected stores: NamedRegistry, protected events: NamedRegistry) {}

	public verify?(context: CommandVerifyContext<T>): Promise<VerificationResult>;

	public abstract execute(context: CommandExecuteContext<T>): Promise<void>;
}
----

=== Command name

> The command name is the unique identifier for the command.
> Needs to be unique within the module the command belongs to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command name is the unique identifier for the command. 
It needs to be unique within the module the command belongs to.
```

The command name can be accessed inside the command via `this.name`.

In case it is desired to choose a different name for the command, a custom command name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom command name.

.Example: Choosing a custom command name
[source,typescript]
----
import { BaseCommand } from 'lisk-sdk';

export class TransferCommand extends BaseCommand {
    // ...
    public get name() {
      return 'newName';
    }
    // ...
}
----

=== Command parameters schema

If a command expects parameters, the parameters schema is defined in the `schema` property of the command.
It defines which parameters are required in the transaction, and also which data types are to be expected.

If the parameters of a transaction object do not match the corresponding schema, the transaction will not be accepted by the node.
The schema follows the format of a modified JSON schema{fn_jsonschema}, and should contain the following properties:

$id::
Unique identifier of the schema throughout the system.

The `$id` property is directly inherited from the JSON-schema.

> You can read more about the id property on {url_json_schema_id}[^].

Reviewer: I think an alternate text for the URL would look nice here.

In general, adhere to the following criteria:

* Use unique IDs across the system.

> * Use path like format for easy readability, (it is not an actual requirement).

Reviewer: Is this tentative information?

Author: nope

> In order to ensure no mixing of any schema with other registered schemas occurs, use one fixed identifier for your app in each ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid mixing any schema with other registered schemas, use a fixed identifier for your app in each ID.
```

= Modules and commands
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
//Settings
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 1
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:docs_sdk: lisk-sdk::
// URLs
:url_json_schema: https://json-schema.org/specification.html
:url_json_schema_id: https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/structuring.html#id
// Project URLs
:url_understand_block_generation: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-generation
:url_understand_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-execution
:url_understand_genesis_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#genesis-block-execution
// Footnotes
:fn_jsonschema: footnote:jsonSchema[See the {url_json_schema} for more information about the JSON schema.]

> A module is a separate component that contains blockchain-related business logic related to one specific domain or topic of a blockchain application.

Author: maybe this explanation is a little to general and maybe also confusing, because users are generally people who use the blockchain app, but it is the developer who design the module. How about this?

```suggestion
A module is a discrete component that contains blockchain-related business logic, which is related to one specific domain or topic of the  blockchain application.
```

Modules can be added to a blockchain application by registering them.
For a successful registration, each module needs to follow the expected module structure, which is described on this page.

All modules of a blockchain application combined define the complete *on-chain logic* of the blockchain application.

.Modules can perform the following:
****
* Executing state changes on the blockchain.
* Defining logic that is executed per block.
* Defining logic that is executed per transaction.
****

== Module anatomy & the BaseModule

All important parts of a module are shown in the diagram below.

.Anatomy of a module

> image::understand-blockchain/sdk/module.png["Module Anatomy",600, align="center"]

Author: it shows up here: https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/understand-blockchain/sdk/modules-commands.html#blockchain-events

		const voterData = await voterSubStore.getWithSchema<VoterData>(address, voterStoreSchema);

		return voterData;
	}

    // ...
}
----
====

=== Calling a module method from another module

//TODO: Link to example of calling a module in a command/hook
To see an example how to call a module method from another module, look at the following example in the module hooks.

== Blockchain Events

// TODO: update content here, once https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/pull/7415 is merged
Blockchain events are logs of events that occurred in the blockchain network.

NOTE: Blockchain events are part of the on-chain logic: Each block includes the **event root in the block header**, which is the root of a Sparse-Merkle-Tree of all events, that are included in that particular block.

Certain blockchain events are published by default, for example

=== The BaseEvent

=== Creating events

=== Registering events

=== Publishing events

== Commands

A command is a group of *state-transition logics triggered by a transaction*, identified by the module and command name of the transaction.

image::understand-blockchain/sdk/command.png["Command anatomy",600, align="center"]

> Every module method always extends from the `BaseCommand` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every module command always extends from the `BaseCommand` class.
```

> = Modules and commands

Reviewer: The content looks good and in sync, however, I feel that the reader has to travel a lot through this page. Can we use `collapsible` for all long snippets to address that?

Author: Yes, I agree the page is getting very long.
But I already tried to hide various code snippets under `collapsible`, and hiding all of them will not improve overall readability imho.
If the page in total is too long, maybe we can reconsider splitting its contents into several pages, and create a new issue for this. For this PR though I would leave it on one page.

// Project URLs
:url_understand_block_generation: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-generation
:url_understand_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#block-execution
:url_understand_genesis_block_execution: understand-blockchain/index.adoc#genesis-block-execution
:url_understand_valid_invalid_txs: understand-blockchain/index.adoc##valid-vs-invalid-transactions
:url_understand_rpc_events: understand-blockchain/sdk/rpc.adoc#events
:url_understand_rpc_request: understand-blockchain/sdk/rpc.adoc#how-to-invoke-endpoints
// Footnotes
:fn_jsonschema: footnote:jsonSchema[See the {url_json_schema} for more information about the JSON schema.]

A module is a discrete component that contains blockchain-related business logic. This logic can be related to a specific domain or a topic of a blockchain application.

Modules can be added to a blockchain application by registering them.
For a successful registration, each module needs to follow the expected module structure, which is described on this page.

All modules of a blockchain application collectively define the *on-chain logic* of the application.

> Modules perform state changes on Blockchain by::

Author: ```suggestion
Modules perform state changes on the blockchain by::
```

> Modules perform state changes on Blockchain by::

Reviewer: 👍🏼

* Defining logic that is executed per block.
* Defining logic that is executed per transaction.

== Module anatomy & the BaseModule

All important parts of a module are shown in the diagram below.

.Anatomy of a module

> image::understand-blockchain/sdk/module.png[600,"Module Anatomy", align="center"]

Author: updated the diagram accordingly 👍

Each module is constructed as a class which extends from the **BaseModule** interface.

The `BaseModule` interface defines all optional and required properties and hooks of a module that must be implemented for the blockchain application to recognize it as a valid module.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
The `BaseModule` class is shown in the following code snippet below:
```

> 

Reviewer: 👍🏼

This means that the minimum ID for a new module is `1000`.
The module ID is stored in binary format.

It is also important to note, that module IDs do not need to be in succession, the only requirement is that they are unique within the blockchain application.
So as an example, it is valid to register multiple modules to the application which have the following module IDs: `1003`, `1000`, and `2500001` as they are in the allowed number range, and each ID is different.

.Example: ID of the Hello module
[source,js]
----
import { cryptography, BaseModule } from 'lisk-sdk';

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
	public id = cryptography.utils.intToBuffer(1000, 4);

    // ...
}
----
////

== Module name

The module name is the unique identifier for the module.

The module name is automatically calculated from the class name of the module, if it extends from the <<module-anatomy-the-basemodule,BaseModule>>:
The `Module` suffix of the class name is removed, and the first character is converted to lowercase.

TIP: For example, the module class `HelloModule` will have the module name `hello`.

The module name can be accessed inside the module via `this.name`.

> In case it is desired to choose a different name for the module, a custom module name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom module name.

Author: There is no need to add a custom module name. It is just giving the developer the option to choose a different module name, if they like to.
It is not better or worse than the default module name, it is just different name. I tried to convey that it is purely optional, as I state in the beginning every module has a default module name. Only if a developer don't want to go with that module name for some reason, they have the flexibility to change it.

If you have a concrete suggestion how to make this point clearer here let me know!

> In case it is desired to choose a different name for the module, a custom module name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom module name.

Reviewer: Interesting, please consider this scenario:
If I create a `HelloModule` and later would like to call it `myHelloModule`. I would have to add the name in the getter of the module as you explain in the text.
What I want to know/understand is why would this be necessary. Will it be considered a change in the on-chain logic requiring a hard fork?
Coz if it doesn't require a hard fork, we can simply suggest that the name selection of a module can be improved later on if required with a hard fork as it doesn't affect the on-chain logic.

> In case it is desired to choose a different name for the module, a custom module name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom module name.

Author: generally, the code of the module should not be changed by a developer, after it is added to the application. 
In most cases, it will mean a hardfork.

Updating the module name will always result in a hardfork, as it is the unique identifier of the module inside the application.

> In case it is desired to choose a different name for the module, a custom module name can be defined by implementing a getter `name` which returns the custom module name.

Author: I added a note add the top of the page, because this is not only true for updating the module name, but any code of the module logic in general.

                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getDelegate.name,
                    request: getDelegateRequestSchema,
                    response: getDelegateResponseSchema,
                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getVoter.name,
                    request: getVoterRequestSchema,
                    response: getVoterResponseSchema,
                },
                {
                    name: this.endpoint.getConstants.name,
                    response: configSchema,
                },
            ],
            commands: this.commands.map(command => ({
                id: command.id,
                name: command.name,
                params: command.schema,
            })),
            events: [],
            assets: [
                {
                    version: 0,
                    data: genesisStoreSchema,
                },
            ],
        };
    }

    // ...
}
----

//TODO: Replace the snippet below with a code example from Hello app
.Example: Schema of the getAllDelegatesResponse endpoint of the DPoS module
[source,typescript]
----

> export const getDelegateRequestSchema = {

Author: good catch! I will update the title t fit the code example

                format: 'uint32',
            },
            numberStandbyDelegates: {
                type: 'integer',
                format: 'uint32',
            },
            tokenIDDPoS: {
                type: 'string',
                format: 'hex',
            },
        },
        required: [
            'numberActiveDelegates',
            'numberStandbyDelegates',
            'tokenIDDPoS',
        ],
    };
    // ...
}
----

=== Config initialization

If a module needs to access certain configuration options, it is required to validate and cache the respective configurations in the `init()` method of a module, as described in the code snippet below:

.Example: Module init() hook
[source,typescript]
----
export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
    // ...
	public async init(args: ModuleInitArgs): Promise<void> {
        const { genesisConfig, moduleConfig } = args;
        const config = objects.mergeDeep({}, defaultConfig, moduleConfig);
        validator.validate<ModuleConfig>(configSchema, config);

        this._tokenID = Buffer.from(config.feeTokenID, 'hex');
        this._minFeePerByte = genesisConfig.minFeePerByte;
    }
    // ...
}
----

> == Endpoints

Author: I think it is described in line 620, or are you missing something specific?

> == Endpoints

Reviewer: Ummmmm I was thinking about something similar to the following code snippet for each major section like **modules**. A sample directory is present in the [SDK Repository](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/tree/development/framework/src/modules). 

I think that every blockchain application's module directory will be similar to the one mentioned earlier so I think a small generic structure of only the component that is being described on the page can ease things for the reader.

Modules 
 - Module 1
   - commands **folder**
   - events **folder**
   - stores **folder** 
   - endpoint.ts
   - method.ts
   - module.ts
 - Module 2

Later in the snippet, we can use something like this as a caption/description.
```
modules/Module1/endpoint.ts
modules/Module1/methods.ts
modules/Module1/module.ts
```
With this, by the end of this page, the reader will not only know what **Module and Commands** are but will also be familiar with how they co-exist in the project directory.

> == Endpoints

Author: thanks for the explanation! I was intending to explain the file structure in the development guides, but I agree it makes sense to already introduce it here.

My first thought was to describe modules and commands here in a more general way, as the file structure like mentioned is not mandatory (e.g. if they don't use Lisk Commander to generate the module, they can have a very different file structure for the module).

[source,typescript]
----
import { TokenMethod } from '../../../token';
// ...

export class SidechainRegistrationCommand extends BaseInteroperabilityCommand {
	public schema = sidechainRegParams;
	private _tokenMethod!: TokenMethod;

	public addDependencies(tokenMethod: TokenMethod) {
		this._tokenMethod = tokenMethod;
	}
    public async verify(
		context: CommandVerifyContext<SidechainRegistrationParams>,
	): Promise<VerificationResult> {
        // ...
        // Sender must have enough balance to pay for extra command fee.
		const availableBalance = await this._tokenMethod.getAvailableBalance(
			context.getMethodContext(),
			senderAddress,
			TOKEN_ID_LSK,
		);
		if (availableBalance < REGISTRATION_FEE) {
            // ...
		}
        // ...
	}
}
----

== Blockchain Events

// TODO: update content here, once https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/pull/7415 is merged
Blockchain events, or module events, are logs of events that occurred in the blockchain network during block execution.
Events occur per block, and are stored in the respective block header, from where they can be queried.

.Do not confuse blockchain events with RPC events.

> IMPORTANT: In contrast to xref:{url_understand_rpc_events}[RPC events], Blockchain events are part of the on-chain logic: Each block includes the **event root in the block header**, which is the root of a Sparse-Merkle-Tree of all blockchain events, that are occured in that particular block.

Author: Maybe @ishantiw can clarify, but from my understanding we have these 2 different event types:
- blockchain events: onchain, defined by the developer (except the default event)
- rpc events: off-chain, defined by application, list of rpc events is here: https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/api/lisk-node-rpc.html#txpool_newtransaction

.Example: Choosing a custom command name
[source,typescript]
----
import { BaseCommand } from 'lisk-sdk';

export class TransferCommand extends BaseCommand {
    // ...
    public get name() {
      return 'newName';
    }
    // ...
}
----

=== Command parameters schema

If a command expects parameters, the parameters schema is defined in the `schema` property of the command.
It defines which parameters are required in the transaction, and also which data types are to be expected.

If the parameters of a transaction object do not match the corresponding schema, the transaction will not be accepted by the node.
The schema follows the format of a modified JSON schema{fn_jsonschema}, and should contain the following properties:

$id::
Unique identifier of the schema throughout the system.

The `$id` property is directly inherited from the JSON-schema.
You can read more about the id property in the {url_json_schema_id}[JSON schema documentation^].

In general, adhere to the following criteria:

* Use unique IDs across the system.

> * Use path like format for easy readability, (it is not an actual requirement).

Author: ```suggestion
* It is recommended to use a path like format for easy readability, but it is not an actual requirement.
```
I rephrased the sentence now, to avoid footnote :)

To avoid mixing any schema with other registered schemas, use a fixed identifier for your app in each ID.

title:: A short description of the schema.
type or dataType::
If the data type of a property is either an `object` or an `array`, the `type` property must be used instead of `dataType`.

> Root type of the schema must be type object.

Author: ```suggestion
Root type of the schema must be of type `object`.
```

	public init(args: { methods: TokenMethods }) {
		this._methods = args.methods;
	}
    // ...
}
----

==== Command verification
The hook `Command.verify` is called only for the command that is referenced by the module name and the command name in the transaction.
Similar to the `verifyTransaction` hook, `Command.verify` will be called also in the transaction pool, and it is to ensure the verification defined in this hook is respected when the transactions are included in a block.

NOTE: In this hook, the *state cannot be mutated* and events cannot be emitted.

[source,typescript]
----
export class TransferCommand extends BaseCommand {
	// ...
	public async verify(context: CommandVerifyContext<Params>): Promise<VerificationResult> {
		const { params } = context;

		try {
			validator.validate(transferParamsSchema, params);
		} catch (err) {
			return {
				status: VerifyStatus.FAIL,
				error: err as Error,
			};
		}
		return {
			status: VerifyStatus.OK,
		};
	}
    // ...
}
----

===== Command verification context

The `context` is available in every `Command.execute()` hook.

It allows convenient access to:

* `logger`: Logger interface, to create log messages.

> * `networkIdentifier`: The identifier of the blockchain network, in which this command is executed.

Author: good catch! I think this code wasn't updated yet when i copied it. It is fixed now :)

* `transaction`: The transaction triggering the command.
* `params`: The command params, which were attached to the transaction.
* `getMethodContext`: Module method interface, to invoke modules methods.
* `getStore`: State store interface, to get and set data from/to the module stores.

.CommandVerifyContext interface
[%collapsible]
====
[source,typescript]
----
export interface CommandVerifyContext<T = undefined> {
	logger: Logger;
	networkIdentifier: Buffer;
	transaction: Transaction; // without decoding params
	params: T;
	getMethodContext: () => ImmutableMethodContext;
	getStore: (moduleID: Buffer, storePrefix: number) => ImmutableSubStore;
}
----
====

==== Command execution

Applies the state changes through the state machine.
The hook `Command.execute` is triggered by a transaction identified by the module name and the command name.

If the hook execution fails, the transaction that triggered this command is still valid, but the state changes applied during this hook are reverted.

> Additionally, an event will be emitted that provides the information whether a command is executed successfully or failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, an event will be emitted that provides the information on whether a command is executed successfully or failed.
```

NOTE: In this hook, the *state can be mutated* and events can be emitted.

[source,typescript]
----
export class TransferCommand extends BaseCommand {
	// ...
	public async execute(context: CommandExecuteContext<Params>): Promise<void> {
		const { params } = context;
		await this._api.transfer(
			context.getAPIContext(),
			context.transaction.senderAddress,
			params.recipientAddress,
			params.tokenID,
			params.amount,
		);
	}
}
----

===== Command execution context

The `context` is available in every `Command.execute()` hook.

It allows convenient access to:

* `logger`: Logger interface, to create log messages.

> * `networkIdentifier`: The identifier of the blockchain network, in which this command is executed.

Reviewer: A similar question about `networkIdentifier ` as above.

Author: updated 👍

	impliesMaxPrevote: boolean;
	maxHeightCertified: number;
	certificateThreshold: bigint;
	transaction: Transaction; // See the "Lisk key concepts" page for more information about transactions
	params: T;
	getMethodContext: () => MethodContext;
	getStore: (moduleID: Buffer, storePrefix: number) => SubStore;
}
----
====

== Lifecycle Hooks

The module hooks are called in a specific order during block creation and execution.

Read more about the block lifecycles in the following sections:

. xref:{url_understand_genesis_block_execution}[Lisk key concepts > Genesis block execution]
. xref:{url_understand_block_generation}[Lisk key concepts > Block generation]
. xref:{url_understand_block_execution}[Lisk key concepts > Block processing]

IMPORTANT: Never include external dynamic data to state changes in the lifecycle hooks.
It will create inconsistencies/forks for nodes when syncing to the current height.

=== insertAssets
The hook `insertAssets` is called at the very beginning of the xref:{url_understand_block_generation}[block generation].
The assets added during the execution of this hook can be used in all the execution hooks afterwards.

//TODO: Add link to random module

> For example, the `seedReveal` property is added to the block asset in this hook by the Random module.

Reviewer: If the `seedReveal` property hasn't been discussed in the docs so far, I think a footnote to the relevant section of the relevant lip should be pasted here.

Author: added footnote

		return subStore.setWithSchema(key, value as Record<string, unknown>, this.schema);
	}

	public async del(ctx: StoreGetter, key: Buffer): Promise<void> {
		if (!this.schema) {
			throw new Error('Schema is not set');
		}
		const subStore = ctx.getOffchainStore(this._storePrefix, this._subStorePrefix);
		return subStore.del(key);
	}
}
----
====

== Module configuration

A module can access specific configuration options of the blockchain application:

. Module-specific configuration options
. Genesis config options

Both configuration options are defined by the node operator in the `config.json` file, generally located in the `config/default/` directory.
//TODO: include example snippets of module and genesis configurations

.config.json structure
[source,js]
----
{
    // ...
    plugins: {},
    genesis: {
        blockTime: 10,
        bftBatchSize: 103,
        communityIdentifier: 'sdk',
        maxTransactionsSize: 15 * 1024, // Kilo Bytes
        minFeePerByte: 1000,
        baseFees: [],
        modules: {},
    },
    generation: {
        force: false,
        waitThreshold: 2,
        generators: [],
        modules: {},
    },

> }

Author: done 👍

	public get key(): Buffer {
		return Buffer.from(this._moduleName + this.name, 'utf-8');
	}

	public get name(): string {
		const name = this.constructor.name.replace('Store', '');
		return name.charAt(0).toLowerCase() + name.substr(1);
	}

	public constructor(moduleName: string) {
		this._moduleName = moduleName;
	}

	public add(ctx: EventQueuer, data: T, topics?: Buffer[], noRevert?: boolean): void {
		if (!this.schema) {
			throw new Error('Schema is not set');
		}

		ctx.eventQueue.add(
			this._moduleName,
			this.name,
			codec.encode(this.schema, data as Record<string, unknown>),
			topics,
			noRevert,
		);
	}
}
----
====

=== Default module event

The default event is indicating the result of a transaction processing (success/failure).
It is automatically emitted every time a transaction is processed by a module.

NOTE: Only valid transactions are processed, and therefore *only valid transactions emit the default module event.*
See section xref:{url_understand_valid_invalid_txs}[Valid vs invalid transactions] for more information.

The default event is therefore the only blockchain event, that is not defined manually by the developer of a module.

> .state_machine.ts

Author: After reviewing the below code snippet, I decided to add a different snippet at this place, and adjusted the content and caption accordingly, please check again :)
